Samira made a face when she opened
her tiffin box and thought,
Who wants to eat parathas
and brinjal curry? Not I.
Last week Amma had given her
noodles with capsicum and carrots.
The noodles are squiggly
and they look like worms,
she said when she
went back home.
I don’t like noodles.
The next day, Amma made
upma with peanuts and peas,
but Samira ate only the peanuts in
it and took the rest back home.
It was like wet sand,
she said when Amma asked her
why she hadn’t eaten it.
Shall I give you idlis? asked Amma.
Oh, yes ! They would be lovely to
play with.I can toss and catch them.
But I will not eat
them—idlis taste like mud.
So now there were parathas and
brinjal curry. Ugh, ugh, ugh!
Shutting her tiffin box with a bang,
Samira went to the school courtyard.
A row of ants crawling
along the wall said,
Samira, why aren’t you eating your
lunch like all the other children?
Samira said,
I don’t like parathas. I don’t like
vegetables. I don’t want any lunch.
Of course, one cannot
eat vegetables,
the ants agreed.
They offered her the wing of a cockroach
that they were carefully carrying and said,
Now try this, it is
really delicious.
Oh no! I don’t want any
horrible cockroaches,
said Samira and ran
away to the garden.
Colourful flowers were
blooming in the garden
and butterflies were flitting
from one to the other.
An orange butterfly with black
checks and stripes said,
Hello Samira! Why aren’t you eating
your lunch like all the other children?
Samira said, I don’t like parathas. I don’t
like vegetables. I don’t want any lunch.
Of course, one cannot eat
vegetables, the butterfly agreed.
Why don’t you drink some nectar from the
flowers like us? It is really delicious.
Samira put her tongue into the centre
of a flower but could find nothing!
I don’t want any nectar. And I think
you are fooling me, she cried.
She ran to the big pipal
tree in the lawn.
A crow cawing above called,
Hello Samira! Why aren’t you eating
your lunch like all the other children?
Samira said, I don’t like parathas. I don’t
like vegetables. I don’t want any lunch.
Of course, one cannot eat
vegetables, the crow agreed,
Here, I’ll give you
something nice,
and it dropped a halfeaten
mouse for Samira.
Oh no! What a terrible thing! Keep your
mouse for yourself, screamed Samira
and ran away to stand
near the wall.
Some sparrows were chirruping on the
ledge of the wall and called out,
Hello Samira! Why aren’t you eating
your lunch like all the other children?
Samira said, I don’t like parathas. I don’t
like vegetables. I don’t want any lunch.
Of course, one cannot eat
vegetables, the sparrows agreed.
Here are some crunchy grains of
barley — they are really nutritious.
Samira chewed one
and made a face.
This is like eating pebbles.
Even upma is better.
A kind sparrow at
once asked her,
Would you like some soft, juicy
worms instead? Just a minute…
Just before it flew off to
get her a worm, Samira said,
Worms indeed. No, thank you! I
would much rather eat noodles,
and ran to the gate
of the school.
A cow was lazily chewing
cud just outside
and mooed when it saw Samira.
Hello! it called, Why aren’t you eating
your lunch like all the other children?
Samira said,
I don’t like parathas. I don’t like
vegetables, I don’t want any lunch.
Of course, cooked brinjal aren’t
nice at all, the cow agreed.
Let me bite off some
of this grass for you
it is particularly
sweet after the rains.
You should eat it with the
hibiscus bush next to you.
You are so lucky. I wish I
could get inside this gate.
Samira was disgusted.
She said, I don’t want to eat any grass.
Nor any bushes.
Even idlis would taste better than grass.
And I am glad the gate is closed
because the hibiscus has pretty flowers
and I don’t want you to eat them.
Samira ran back to her classroom
and opened her lunch box.
How nice my parathas and brinjal curry
are, she thought and quickly ate them up.